---
title: "Day 4: Start marketing"
meta: Begin marketing your work simply by sharing what you’re working on.
image: day-4-illustration.jpg
layout: post
---

Today, I want to share with you one of my favorite quotes on how to promote yourself, from the book Show Your Work by artist and author [Austin Kleon](http://austinkleon.com/):

> Almost all of the people I look up to and try to steal from today, regardless of their profession, have built sharing into their routine. These people aren’t schmoozing at cocktail parties; they’re too busy for that.
>
> They’re cranking away in their studios, their laboratories, or their cubicles, but instead of maintaining absolute secrecy and hoarding their work, they’re open about what they’re working on, and they’re consistently posting bits and pieces of their work, their ideas, and what they’re learning online.
> 
> Instead of wasting their time “networking,” they’re taking advantage of the network. By generously sharing their ideas and their knowledge, they often gain an audience that they can then leverage when they need it—for fellowship, feedback, or patronage.

I highly recommend reading [this review](http://www.brainpickings.org/2014/03/12/austin-kleon-show-your-work/) of Austin's book on Brain Pickings.

James Morris, a participant in the first Small Product Lab, really took the idea of showing his work to heart. He wrote [three Medium posts](https://medium.com/@moreofmorris) during the 10 day Lab, documenting his progress and mindset. Afterwards, he shared his thoughts with us:

> There is something organic and natural about sharing your progress and, in return, having people genuinely interested and showing support by buying your product. I’ve always believed in a more grassroots approach to selling yourself … and it’s an ethos I will continue on with as I make and release more of my side projects. It’s good to share!

The good news is that if you've been posting to the Facebook group, you're already on your way. Can you take that a little further today? Share your progress. Help others. Ask questions. Start conversations.

To-Do: #SPLDay4
------------------------------------------------------------

### 1. Share something

While working on your product, take a few minutes today to share something with your audience. It could be:

* A quick tip
* An update on your progress
* An explanation of your process
* Something you learned recently
* Something that inspires you

Post it where your audience hangs out online and in a format that will resonate with them, whether that's [a quick tweet](https://twitter.com/djcoffman/status/612278076282699777), a [post on Medium](https://medium.com/@moreofmorris/work-in-progress-a35d7c227d61), an [illustration on Tumblr](http://kyletwebster.tumblr.com/post/121195686530/these-inking-brushes-for-photoshop-are-coming-very), or an infographic on Pinterest.

### 2. Help someone one-on-one

Help another SPL’er spread the word. Follow them, share their landing page from #SPLDay3 or content from #SPLDay4 with your own audience, or post their work in a relevant community. Often the best way to build a platform is to help other people first.

Sharing ideas, helping others, and showing your work are good habits to keep up as you build momentum for launch.

### The Mid-Lab Challenge

Submit today's assignment to be considered for the mid-Lab prize. We're using a private form to keep your entry secure. Don't worry if you haven't done any of the other assignments—you'll still be considered for the prize.

1. Provide a link to a piece of content you shared today. It could be anything related to your product, from a blog post to an Instagram picture.
2. Why did you choose that particular medium and format?
3. Tell us how you helped someone else spread the word about their product.

Submit your entry by 12am PT / 3am ET on Saturday. We'll announce the winner on Monday.
