---
title: "Day 9: Partner up"
meta: Find a buddy to review and edit your work.
image: day-9-illustration.jpg
layout: post
---

As we toil away on our products, it becomes harder and harder to see it from your audience's point of view. In the words of [Jeff Goins](http://goinswriter.com/how-to-write-a-book/):

> You’re too close to the work now and need to have a someone review it. Ask a friend, peer, or professional editor (if you can afford it) to do her worst. Be ready for the criticism to come and decide ahead of time to apply it.

All feedback is a gift, if you choose to see it that way.

To-Do: #SPLDay9
------------------------------------------------------------

### Partner up

Choose someone from the Assignment Log and write your name next to theirs in the column titled #SPLDay9 - Reviewer. Get in touch with that person and ask how you can help them the most. Here are some ideas:

* Read/watch/listen to their product
* Look over their launch plan
* Proofread their tweets / Facebook posts, etc.
* Give feedback on their sales copy and cover image

Put your feedback in a Facebook post, public Google Doc, or other publicly-viewable format so that others can read and benefit from it as well. Post the link to your feedback in the Assignment Log next to your name, under the column #SPLDay9 - I Reviewed.

### Announcing the winner of the Mid-Lab Challenge!

And the winner is...(drumroll)...Allen Martsch! Allen shared [a great series of illustrations](http://allendrawsstuffsometimes.tumblr.com/post/130319869921/this-is-the-completed-first-page-of-my-9-page) showing how he created the first page of his comic: My Comic Process for Gumroad's Small Product Lab. Teaching others about your process is a great way to bring attention to your work while delivering lots of value to your audience.

Allen also reblogged [this post](http://allenclusive.tumblr.com/post/130303593424/insertdisc5-hey-im-making-a-20-pages-comic-in) by fellow Small Product Lab creator Adrienne. Thanks for sharing, Allen!

And a big high five to everyone who participated in the Mid-Lab Challenge. Seeing so many of you tweet resources related to your products, share your SPL process on Medium, and offer sneak peaks of your products via blog posts has been inspiring. We've also been impressed by those of you who've gone above and beyond to help your fellow SPL participants. Keep up the great work!
